# Deep Learning the Indus Script

View our research article titled "__Deep Learning the Indus Script__" published in arXiv at: [arXiv:1702.00523v1](https://arxiv.org/abs/1702.00523v1)

View the slideshow presentation of the work at: [OCR on Indus Seals](https://rawgit.com/tpsatish95/OCR-on-Indus-Seals/master/slides/index.html)

# Abstract
Standardized corpora of undeciphered scripts, a necessary starting point for computational epigraphy, requires laborious human effort for their preparation from raw archaeological records. Automating this process through machine learning algorithms can be of significant aid to epigraphical research. Here, we take the first steps in this direction and present a deep learning pipeline that takes as input images of the undeciphered Indus script, as found in archaeological artifacts, and returns as output a string of graphemes, suitable for inclusion in a standard corpus. The image is first decomposed into regions using Selective Search and these regions are classified as containing textual and/or graphical information using a convolutional neural network. Regions classified as potentially containing text are hierarchically merged and trimmed to remove non-textual information. The remaining textual part of the image is segmented using standard image processing techniques to isolate individual graphemes. This set is finally passed to a second convolutional neural network to classify the graphemes, based on a standard corpus. The classifier can identify the presence or absence of the most frequent Indus grapheme, the "jar" sign, with an accuracy of 92%. Our results demonstrate the great potential of deep learning approaches in computational epigraphy and, more generally, in the digital humanities.

##Acknowledgments
The second author's research is partially supported by a Google Faculty Research Award on ``Machine learning of syntax in undeciphered scripts". We acknowledge the generous assistance of Suresh Babu of the Indus Research Centre and G. Sundar of the Roja Muthiah Research Library in providing images of the Indus seals. We thank Harappa.com for their kind permission to use an image of the Indus seal in this paper. We record our gratitude to Iravatham Mahadevan for being a continued source of wisdom and inspiration in research on the Indus civilization.